Hi I just want to mention a few things about what's new in Python 3.6 and hopefully convince you that
if you haven't upgraded to 3.6 yet you probably should.
And I'll create more videos that will kind of explore these topics here in a little bit more detail.
So first of all dictionaries maintain sort order.
Now technically this is not a feature of 3.6.
It is an implementation detail in the sense that it's only because of the way the implementation was
done.
The new implementation for dictionaries in Python.
And what happens is that they maintain the key order.
So if you you know insert keys into a dictionary in a certain order because you're doing it sequentially
then when you read back those keys there they will come back you know in the same order.
So this was never guaranteed.
We've always had that dictionaries do not guarantee their key owner and in general they don't.
But in this particular implementation they do.
And in fact now it seems that in 3.7 this will be guaranteed.
So that's great and I'll cover in more detail what this means in an upcoming video than actually unrelated
to this.
We have that the older of the keyword arguments passed to a function is maintained.
You remember that starstuff.
KW And that we looked at.
Well when you were iterating through this.
KW parameter inside the function.
There was no guarantee that it came back in the same order in which it was passed to the function.
Now there is and that's great.
Actually that's quite a big deal because I'll show you how we can now leverage this to relook at the
code that we had for named topples that used default values.
And I'll show you how we can create our own name topple function that will allow us to specify the field
names and the default values at the same time.
Of course we'll still use the name topple you know built in function inside our own name type of function.
But I'll show you how easy it becomes.
Now that we have this guarantee of the preservation in the arguments or another one is the underscores
in numeric literals.
That's actually quite nice.
You know for example you can just write your literals and actually put underscores in them and you can
see it's just a regular one and it works with integers with hex numbers binary numbers floats all that
stuff.
So that's great.
Makes code more readable again.
You know this one is really for readability of strings.
That's a much simpler string interpolation.
You know how to use the Format function already.
And there's also the old style you know the percentage that I don't use.
I only use the format but this one now is really handy and what it is is that you basically just put
an F lowercase or uppercase doesn't matter in front of your string.
And now inside those curly braces that you are used to using and the dot with the DOT format method
you can actually put expressions in here.
So for example I've got a numerator denominator that are variables in the global scope.
Then I can reference them directly in here.
Right.
And then here I actually have an expression I have numerator divided by denominators.
And then of course I also have some formatting as well.
So now when I run this you can see it works quite nicely and it's a lot shorter than writing you know
F and if I had written it this way I you know I this wouldn't work I would have to write as a single
variable and I have to say Dopp format and then pass in the arguments that are going to get interpreted
into the string.
So that's really nice.
Type annotations so basically that allows us to provide type information to function arguments class
variables and so on.
And you can find more information about it in pepped for a foreign 5:26.
Now according to them and it's really worth emphasizing that Python will remain dynamically typed language
this is not static typing.
This changes nothing.
These type annotations will not affect how Python runs.
It won't make it run fast or slow or anything.
They just think of them like doc strings right and think so.
Think of them that way.
And so an external tool is going to have to make use of those so the doc strings of get included with
the objects and then an external tool can make use of it like for example the help function.
Right but also your auto documenting documentation generators can use those as well.
Well this is going to be the same thing.
These these type annotations are included with the object but Python doesn't actually use it so they
are passed and they're you know they've kind of integrated now with the metadata of the object but extol
tools like my.
My point is probably the biggest one.
That's the one that really started pushing all this and I think that was the catalyst for a lot of the
type annotations as well as for the syntax will support that pipe from the patch.
Edited does support for any foreign 5:26.
I'm not sure if it supports them in their entirety yet they might.
That's something we'll just have to look into but here's an example.
So let's say I want to create this function squares and normally squares would just be squares.
L Coel on return that you can add these annotations.
These hints essentially and you can say OK.
Else should be of type list.
So I had to import this list from the Taiping module and it's going to contain integers and it's going
to return a list containing integers.
We've seen how to use this syntax before for annotations but here this is type notation not just an
arbitrary string.
And then we return that.
So now we can call my list but here's how we can call squiz.
But here's my list which is a variable.
And again I can give it a notation I can say my list is going to be a list containing integers and then
here I'm also initializing at the same time providing a value essentially at the same time.
And so when we run all this let's go ahead and run it.
You see it works properly and Python doesn't really care what you're passing into squares it doesn't
care that you know if my list contains integers or not it's not going to complain.
This is not static typing I just want to re-emphasize that.
So for example let's say I do this that I take a dictionary and I purposely made my keys integers because
when I iterate a dictionary like in this miscomprehension here it's to iterate the keys.
So I would just wanted to make sure that my keys are going to be integers for now if I call this.
That was just fine as well.
Why.
Well it's not a list right a dictionary isn't a list but Python doesn't care.
These notations are not static type checking.
Now something like my pie or pie Chelm should pick that up and should give you a warning saying hey
you know you're passing a dictionary to squares it's actually expecting a list of integers and then
there's a few other enhancements as well actually there's a lot of other enhancements that I'm not going
to cover.
I just want to mention the one about asynchronous.
There's a lot there's been a lot of enhancements to a synchronous programming in Python 3 and Python
3:6 just keeps building up on that Python 3:5 added quite a bit.
And then 3:6 So take a look at that if you're interested I will cover that in the latest section of
the course cause probably in four of the.
Because we still have to cover iterators and generators and then we have to look at our class programming.
Right.
And then you object normal programming and then we can look at a synchronous programming as well as
probably metaprogramming.
And so there's also a lot more in 3.6.
Again just go to this link and if you're interested see everything that's come out but a whole lot of
good stuff came out and 3.6.
And hopefully if you're not in 3.6 already go for it.